# Frequently Asked Questions

## General

__Q:__ Can I have a PTA code?

No. If the class is full, the class is full. I can't take more students than
the class limit because that puts an unfair burden on the TAs doing the
grading.

The Statistics Department PTA policy is online at
[statistics.ucdavis.edu/courses/pta-policy][pta]. If you have any questions
adding or dropping, contact Kim McMullen (<stat-advising@ucdavis.edu>).

[pta]: https://statistics.ucdavis.edu/courses/pta-policy

__Q:__ Can I audit?

Yes, as long as there's enough space in the classroom. Send me an email and I
will add you to the class Canvas and Piazza.


__Q:__ I'm having a hard time with the class, and my grades aren't great. What
can I do to get help?

Contact me by email as soon as possible. It's important to contact me as soon
as you start to feel this way, since it's more likely we can find a solution if
it's early in the quarter.


## Grading

__Q:__ Why did I receive a 95% when I did everything the assignment asked?

A 95% is an "A" grade. Scores above 95% are reserved for students that did
truly exceptional work. So if you want a grade above 95%, you must go above and
beyond the requirements. Generally, this means your work must incorporate ideas
that are relevant but were not taught in class.

__Q:__ Will grades be curved?

No. I don't curve grades because it forces students to compete with each other.

I sometimes do adjust the median or mean for individual assignments to account
for differences in how TAs grade, but this not the same as a curve.

__Q:__ Will the lowest assignment grade be dropped?

No. Since my classes are assignment-based and usually don't have exams, I don't
drop assignment grades. If you can't turn in an assignment on time and have a
legitimate excuse (such as medical emergency), email me as soon as possible to
arrange an extension or alternative.


## Participation

__Q:__ Do I have to use Piazza?

All class announcements are posted to Piazza, so you should sign up.

Piazza is one way to earn your participation grade. However, you can also earn
your participation grade through active participation in class or office hours.


__Q:__ Do I have to go to office hours to earn my participation grade?

You are not required to go to office hours, but office hours are one way to
earn your participation grade. You can also earn your participation grade
through active participation in class or Piazza.


__Q:__ How often should I post to Piazza if I'm using Piazza to earn my
participation grade?

Aim for about 2 questions, answers, or comments per week. Make sure your posts
contribute to the discussion. "Me too" comments or answers that repeat what has
already been said will not improve and may even hurt your grade.


## Other

__Q:__ Will you write a letter of recommendation for me?

Before asking for a letter of recommendation, make sure that:

1. You've taken at least 2 classes with me, and generally did well in them.
2. I know your name, face, and a little bit about your career goals. The best
   way to make this happen is to introduce yourself to me and participate
   regularly office hours.
    
If you meet the conditions, I will generally say yes, as long as I believe I
know enough about you and your work to write a strong letter.
